# Client/Server Development Portfolio for CS 340

**How do you write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable? Especially consider your work on the CRUD Python module from Project One, which you used to connect the dashboard widgets to the database in Project Two. What were the advantages of working in this way? How else could you use this CRUD Python module in the future?**

Writing programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable, I believe, is an essential aspect of developing well-written code. This essentially means that the code itself is clean and easy to read, and if another developer were to add code to a project, they would be easily able to without issue. In the case of my CRUD python module from project one, it focuses on creating a CRUD module — or create, read, update, and delete methods for a database collection of animals. While creating this file and the CRUD methods, I particularly focused on maintainable code and how to prevent redundant code as much as possible. My python file is short and to the point to ensure I did not create redundant code. The CRUD Python module could be utilized for other databases or even smaller lists or dictionaries in future projects. Trying to keep maintainable and adaptable code is important for these reasons, as if I wanted to create a similar project on my own, I could utilize the same tools and processes to help create a similar structure.

**How do you approach a problem as a computer scientist? Consider how you approached the database or dashboard requirements that Grazioso Salvare requested. How did your approach to this project differ from previous assignments in other courses? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to create databases to meet other client requests?**

One of the main ways I approach problems like a computer scientist is a technique I learned from a previous course, and that is breaking down problems or issues or requirements into smaller, more maintainable actions to solve. Even doing this within large projects, such as the Grazioso Salvare, helps to manage the requirements needed and focus on solving each requirement until the entire project is solved. I wouldn’t necessarily say my approach to this project differed too much from previous assignments in other courses, but since I was introduced to tools I have never used like Jupyter Notebooks, I did have to approach the material differently. MongoDB is also a new aspect for me, especially with understanding how to utilize the terminal and how databases as a whole function on a computer system. I still utilized similar methods I’ve learned, where I broke down the problem.
I would utilize these same techniques and methods in the future during my career while dealing with client requests. Breaking down large problems and making them smaller and more maintainable problems allows for less overwhelming or daunting tasks to more focused and manageable ones. In addition to this, I would ensure to keep in mind to fully create comments and a detailed README in every project so when I must collaborate with other developers, the process will be smoother and maintainable for them as well.

**What do computer scientists do, and why does it matter? How would your work on this type of project help a company, like Grazioso Salvare, to do their work better?**

Computer scientists, I believe, is a broad term and they can focus on many areas that fall under computer science. However, in my case, as computer scientists, we focus on understanding, implementing, and solving problems related to computing and software. Computer scientists then apply their knowledge and help to adapt the world to advancements in technology and research. As computer scientists in the current age of technology, we have become an important part of how the future of technology will look and provide for society. Helping Grazioso Salvare and other companies improve their work within technology is important for me as a computer scientist. Having the right tools, developers, and process(es) in place will help Grazioso Salvare thrive and continue to provide adequate care. Having a computer scientist on your team will only improve the functionalities needed and also ensure the further success of the company.
